now on Tuesday nine countries took part
in the biggest Coalition Aid airdrop in
a single day into Gaza the scale of the
delivery was time to Mark the end of
Ramadan 14 aircraft delivered 10 tons of
food and essential Aid in an operation
led by the Jordanian Air Force the UK
was among the participating Nations
Britain's foreign secretary David
Cameron said thousands of people in
desperate need would benefit Israel's
been under International pressure to
allow more Aid trucks access by land and
work is continuing on a maritime air
Corridor our diplomatic correspondent
James landel joined the Royal Air Force
flight delivering Aid to
Gaza at an Airbase in Jordan piles of
humanitarian Aid stacked into individual
pallets adorned with their own parachute
all of it Bound for
Gaza on the tarmac 14 military aircraft
getting ready for the largest Coalition
airdrop since began last month a special
delivery to Mark the end of
Ramadan inside pilots and Crews from
nine Nations being briefed on the
Operation Safety a key concern in the
small airspace over
Gaza outside the RAF plane is loaded
each pallet containing flour rice sugar
beans baby food oil and water the basics
for a meal this the raf's sixth airdrop
so far it is not that much but I tell
you what it's the effort that counts as
in every little helps um I'm quite proud
and privileged to be involved in this s
of mission but is it enough will it meet
the needs of the people in Gaza the
aircraft's carrying 12 of these pallets
now each of them are about a ton so that
means this entire
payload is worth about one truck
crossing a border on the
ground the air Crews here insist that
cumulatively the air drops are beginning
to have an impact this is a sustained
effort um we've been here for 3 weeks
now and we're we're continually
delivering um with the aid um the people
of Gaza are very grateful for the
efforts that we're going to and we'll
keep delivering and keep delivering
until we can't give them
anymore in the air we fly the short
distance to Gaza then we're over the
Drop Zone the pilots are satisfied no
one's below and the back ramp
lowers these air drops are expensive and
inadequate a symbol of the failure to
get Aiden by other means but we're told
they're better than nothing and they are
making a
difference 12 boxes out all On Target on
the Northern Shore these air drops can
be dangerous people have been crushed in
the Stampede to get to the pallets but
there's little that can be done from the
air so today the Skies over Gaza were
filled with parachutes Israel said more
Aid trucks are getting through but how
many is not clear this aid from the air
will not fill the Gap but the air Crews
involved hope believe it is making a
difference to so many facing famine on
the ground James land lbbc news over
Gaza